# What are functions composed of?

- function_name 

A function’s name is a symbol that represents the address where the
function’s code starts. In assembly language, the symbol is defined by typing
the the function’s name as a label before the function’s code. This is just like
labels used for jumping.

- function parameters

A function’s parameters are the data items that are explicitly given to the
function for processing. For example, in mathematics, there is a sine
function. If you were to ask a computer to find the sine of 2, sine would be
the function’s name, and 2 would be the parameter. Some functions have many parameters, others have none.

- local variables 

Local variables are data storage that a function uses while processing that is
thrown away when it returns. It’s kind of like a scratch pad of paper.
Functions get a new piece of paper every time they are activated, and they
have to throw it away when they are finished processing. Local variables of a
function are not accessible to any other function within a program.

- static variables

Static variables are data storage that a function uses while processing that is
not thrown away afterwards, but is reused for every time the function’s code
is activated. This data is not accessible to any other part of the program.
Static variables are generally not used unless absolutely necessary, as they
can cause problems later on.

- global variables

Global variables are data storage that a function uses for processing which
are managed outside the function. For example, a simple text editor may put
the entire contents of the file it is working on in a global variable so it doesn’t
have to be passed to every function that operates on it.2 Configuration values
are also often stored in global variables.

- return address 

The return address is an "invisible" parameter in that it isn’t directly used
during the function. The return address is a parameter which tells the function
where to resume executing after the function is completed. This is needed
because functions can be called to do processing from many different parts of
your program, and the function needs to be able to get back to wherever it
was called from. In most programming languages, this parameter is passed
automatically when the function is called. In assembly language, the **call**
instruction handles passing the return address for you, and **ret** handles using
that address to return back to where you called the function from.

- return value

The return value is the main method of transferring data back to the main
program. Most programming languages only allow a single return value for a
function.


## What is a language calling convention?

- Every programming language has it's own way of passing the return address, 
parameters and other mechanics involved in function execution. This varying 
characteristic of programming language is called **calling convention**.
Assembly language can use any calling convention it wants to. You can even make
one up yourself. However, if you want to interoperate with functions written in
other languages, you have to obey their calling conventions. We will use the
calling convention of the C programming language for our examples because it is
the most widely used, and because it is the standard for Linux platforms.