# All about stack

You cannot write assembly-language functions without understanding how the
computer’s stack works. Each computer program that runs uses a region of
memory called the stack to enable functions to work properly. Think of a stack as
a pile of papers on your desk which can be added to indefinitely. You generally
keep the things that you are working on toward the top, and you take things off as
you are finished working with them.

Your computer has a stack, too. The computer’s stack lives at the very top
addresses of memory. You can push values onto the top of the stack through an
instruction called pushl, which pushes either a register or memory value onto the
top of the stack. Well, we say it’s the top, but the "top" of the stack is actually the
bottom of the stack’s memory. Although this is confusing, the reason for it is that
when we think of a stack of anything - dishes, papers, etc. - we think of adding
and removing to the top of it. However, in memory the stack starts at the top of
memory and grows downward due to architectural considerations. Therefore,
when we refer to the "top of the stack" remember it’s at the bottom of the stack’s
memory. You can also pop values off the top using an instruction called popl.
This removes the top value from the stack and places it into a register or memory
location of your choosing..

**What is the %esp register?**

The stack register, %esp, always contains a pointer to the current top of the stack, wherever it is.
Every time we push something onto the stack with pushl, %esp gets subtracted
by 4 so that it points to the new top of the stack (remember, each word is four
bytes long, and the stack grows downward).


**How to push values to top of the stack?**

pushl instruction can be used to push values to top of the stack.

**How to remove values from top of the stack?**

popl instruction can be used to remove values from top of the stack.

**How to access value on the top of the stack?**


If we simply want to access the value on the top of the stack without removing it,
we can simply use the %esp register in indirect addressing mode. For example, the
following code moves whatever is at the top of the stack into %eax:

```movl (%esp), %eax```

If we were to just do this:

```movl %esp, %eax```

then %eax would just hold the pointer to the top of the stack rather than the value
at the top. Putting %esp in parenthesis causes the computer to go to indirect
addressing mode, and therefore we get the value pointed to by %esp. If we want to
access the value right below the top of the stack, we can simply issue this
instruction:

```movl 4(%esp), %eax # this is base pointer addressing mode ``` 



## What happens before functions are executed in the C calling convention?

Before executing a function, a program pushes all of the parameters for the
function onto the stack in the reverse order that they are documented. Then the
program issues a call instruction indicating which function it wishes to start. The
call instruction does two things. First it pushes the address of the next
instruction, which is the return address, onto the stack. Then it modifies the
instruction pointer (%eip) to point to the start of the function. So, at the time the
function starts, the stack looks like this (the "top" of the stack is at the bottom on
this example)

```
Parameter #N
...
Parameter 2
Parameter 1
Return Address <--- (%esp)
```

## What happens after parameters and return addresses are pushed to the stack?

After parameters and return addresses are pushed the stack, 

1. %esp is copied to %ebp

**Why?**
Copying the top of the stack's(%esp) address to the %ebp allows you to access other parameters as fixed length addresses from the %ebp which is crucial because the stack might be used for other things too.